TITLE: Attention Is All You Need
AUTHORS: Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin (Google Brain / Google Research / University of Toronto)
VENUE: 31st Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2017)

SECTION: Abstract
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with large and limited training data.

SECTION: 1 Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. Aligning the positions to steps in computation time, they generate a sequence of hidden states h_t, as a function of the previous hidden state h_{t-1} and the input for position t. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths, as memory constraints limit batching across examples.
Attention mechanisms have become an integral part of compelling sequence modeling and transduction models in various tasks, allowing modeling of dependencies without regard to their distance in the input or output sequences. In all but a few cases, however, such attention mechanisms are used in conjunction with a recurrent network.
In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output. The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.

SECTION: 2 Background
The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU, ByteNet and ConvS2S, all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models, the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows in the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makes it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions. In the Transformer this is reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due to averaging attention-weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi-Head Attention.
Self-attention, sometimes called intra-attention, is an attention mechanism relating different positions of a single sequence in order to compute a representation of the sequence. To the best of our knowledge, the Transformer is the first transduction model relying entirely on self-attention to compute representations of its input and output without using sequence-aligned RNNs or convolution.

SECTION: 3 Model Architecture
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder-decoder structure. Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations (x1, ..., xn) to a sequence of continuous representations z = (z1, ..., zn). Given z, the decoder then generates an output sequence (y1, ..., ym) of symbols one element at a time. At each step the model is auto-regressive, consuming the previously generated symbols as additional input when generating the next.
The Transformer follows this overall architecture using stacked self-attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and decoder.

SECTION: 3.1 Encoder and Decoder Stacks
Encoder: The encoder is composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers. The first is a multi-head self-attention mechanism, and the second is a simple, position-wise fully connected feed-forward network. We employ a residual connection around each of the two sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. That is, the output of each sub-layer is LayerNorm(x + Sublayer(x)), where Sublayer(x) is the function implemented by the sub-layer itself. To facilitate these residual connections, all sub-layers in the model, as well as the embedding layers, produce outputs of dimension d_model = 512.
Decoder: The decoder is also composed of a stack of N = 6 identical layers. In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer, which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack. Similar to the encoder, we employ residual connections around each of the sub-layers, followed by layer normalization. We also modify the self-attention sub-layer in the decoder stack to prevent positions from attending to subsequent positions. This masking, combined with the fact that the output embeddings are offset by one position, ensures that the predictions for position i can depend only on the known outputs at positions less than i.

SECTION: 3.2 Attention
An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key.

SECTION: 3.2.1 Scaled Dot-Product Attention
We call our particular attention "Scaled Dot-Product Attention". The input consists of queries and keys of dimension d_k, and values of dimension d_v. We compute the dot products of the query with all keys, divide each by sqrt(d_k), and apply a softmax function to obtain the weights on the values. In practice, we compute the attention function on a set of queries simultaneously, packed together into a matrix Q. The keys and values are also packed together into matrices K and V. We compute the matrix of outputs as: Attention(Q, K, V) = softmax(QK^T / sqrt(d_k)) V.
The two most commonly used attention functions are additive attention, and dot-product (multiplicative) attention. Dot-product attention is identical to our algorithm, except for the scaling factor of 1/sqrt(d_k). Additive attention computes the compatibility function using a feed-forward network with a single hidden layer. While the two are similar in theoretical complexity, dot-product attention is much faster and more space-efficient in practice, since it can be implemented using highly optimized matrix multiplication code.
While for small values of d_k the two mechanisms perform similarly, additive attention outperforms dot product attention without scaling for larger values of d_k. We suspect that for large values of d_k, the dot products grow large in magnitude, pushing the softmax function into regions where it has extremely small gradients. To counteract this effect, we scale the dot products by 1/sqrt(d_k).

SECTION: 3.2.2 Multi-Head Attention
Instead of performing a single attention function with d_model-dimensional keys, values and queries, we found it beneficial to linearly project the queries, keys and values h times with different, learned linear projections to d_k, d_k and d_v dimensions, respectively. On each of these projected versions of queries, keys and values we then perform the attention function in parallel, yielding d_v-dimensional output values. These are concatenated and once again projected, resulting in the final values.
Multi-head attention allows the model to jointly attend to information from different representation subspaces at different positions. With a single attention head, averaging inhibits this.
MultiHead(Q, K, V) = Concat(head_1, ..., head_h) W^O, where head_i = Attention(Q W_i^Q, K W_i^K, V W_i^V).
In this work we employ h = 8 parallel attention layers, or heads. For each of these we use d_k = d_v = d_model/h = 64. Due to the reduced dimension of each head, the total computational cost is similar to that of single-head attention with full dimensionality.

SECTION: 3.2.3 Applications of Attention in our Model
The Transformer uses multi-head attention in three different ways: (1) In "encoder-decoder attention" layers, the queries come from the previous decoder layer, and the memory keys and values come from the output of the encoder. This allows every position in the decoder to attend over all positions in the input sequence. (2) The encoder contains self-attention layers. In a self-attention layer all of the keys, values and queries come from the same place, in this case, the output of the previous layer in the encoder. Each position in the encoder can attend to all positions in the previous layer of the encoder. (3) Similarly, self-attention layers in the decoder allow each position in the decoder to attend to all positions in the decoder up to and including that position, with leftward information flow prevented (masked) to preserve the auto-regressive property.

SECTION: 3.3 Position-wise Feed-Forward Networks
In addition to attention sub-layers, each of the layers in our encoder and decoder contains a fully connected feed-forward network, which is applied to each position separately and identically. This consists of two linear transformations with a ReLU activation in between: FFN(x) = max(0, x W1 + b1) W2 + b2. While the linear transformations are the same across different positions, they use different parameters from layer to layer. The dimensionality of input and output is d_model = 512, and the inner-layer has dimensionality d_ff = 2048.

SECTION: 3.4 Embeddings and Softmax
Similarly to other sequence transduction models, we use learned embeddings to convert the input tokens and output tokens to vectors of dimension d_model. We also use the usual learned linear transformation and softmax function to convert the decoder output to predicted next-token probabilities. In our model, we share the same weight matrix between the two embedding layers and the pre-softmax linear transformation. In the embedding layers, we multiply those weights by sqrt(d_model).

SECTION: 3.5 Positional Encoding
Since our model contains no recurrence and no convolution, in order for the model to make use of the order of the sequence, we must inject some information about the relative or absolute position of the tokens in the sequence. To this end, we add "positional encodings" to the input embeddings at the bottoms of the encoder and decoder stacks. The positional encodings have the same dimension d_model as the embeddings, so that the two can be summed.
In this work, we use sine and cosine functions of different frequencies: PE(pos, 2i) = sin(pos / 10000^(2i/d_model)) and PE(pos, 2i+1) = cos(pos / 10000^(2i/d_model)), where pos is the position and i is the dimension. That is, each dimension of the positional encoding corresponds to a sinusoid. The wavelengths form a geometric progression from 2*pi to 10000*2*pi. We chose this function because we hypothesized it would allow the model to easily learn to attend by relative positions, since for any fixed offset k, PE_{pos+k} can be represented as a linear function of PE_pos.
We also experimented with using learned positional embeddings instead, and found that the two versions produced nearly identical results. We chose the sinusoidal version because it may allow the model to extrapolate to sequence lengths longer than the ones encountered during training.

SECTION: 4 Why Self-Attention
In this section we compare various aspects of self-attention layers to the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequence of symbol representations to another sequence of equal length. Motivating our use of self-attention we consider three desiderata: the total computational complexity per layer, the amount of computation that can be parallelized (measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required), and the path length between long-range dependencies in the network. The shorter these paths between any combination of positions in the input and output sequences, the easier it is to learn long-range dependencies.
A self-attention layer connects all positions with a constant number of sequentially executed operations (O(1)), whereas a recurrent layer requires O(n) sequential operations. In terms of computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence length n is smaller than the representation dimensionality d, which is most often the case with sentence representations used by state-of-the-art models. A single convolutional layer with kernel width k < n does not connect all pairs of input and output positions; doing so requires a stack of O(n/k) convolutional layers (contiguous kernels) or O(log_k(n)) layers (dilated convolutions), increasing the maximum path length. As a side benefit, self-attention could yield more interpretable models; individual attention heads clearly learn to perform different tasks and many appear to exhibit behavior related to the syntactic and semantic structure of sentences.
Table 1 comparison (Complexity per Layer, Sequential Operations, Maximum Path Length): Self-Attention: O(n^2 * d), O(1), O(1). Recurrent: O(n * d^2), O(n), O(n). Convolutional: O(k * n * d^2), O(1), O(log_k(n)). Self-Attention (restricted to neighborhood size r): O(r * n * d), O(1), O(n/r).

SECTION: 5 Training
5.1 Training Data and Batching: We trained on the standard WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million sentence pairs, encoded using byte-pair encoding with a shared source-target vocabulary of about 37000 tokens. For English-French, we used the WMT 2014 English-French dataset consisting of 36M sentences split into a 32000 word-piece vocabulary. Each training batch contained sentence pairs with approximately 25000 source tokens and 25000 target tokens.
5.2 Hardware and Schedule: We trained our models on one machine with 8 NVIDIA P100 GPUs. Base models trained for 100,000 steps or 12 hours (0.4 seconds per step). The big models were trained for 300,000 steps (3.5 days, 1.0 second per step).
5.3 Optimizer: We used the Adam optimizer with beta1 = 0.9, beta2 = 0.98 and epsilon = 1e-9. The learning rate was varied according to lrate = d_model^-0.5 * min(step_num^-0.5, step_num * warmup_steps^-1.5), with warmup_steps = 4000.
5.4 Regularization: We employ Residual Dropout, applied to the output of each sub-layer before it is added to the sub-layer input and normalized, and to the sums of the embeddings and positional encodings, with rate P_drop = 0.1 for the base model. We also employ Label Smoothing of value epsilon_ls = 0.1, which hurts perplexity but improves accuracy and BLEU score.

SECTION: 6 Results
6.1 Machine Translation: On WMT 2014 English-to-German, the big Transformer model outperforms the best previously reported models (including ensembles) by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4, trained for 3.5 days on 8 P100 GPUs. The base model surpasses all previously published models and ensembles at a fraction of the training cost. On WMT 2014 English-to-French, the big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.8 (41.0 in some reporting), outperforming all previously published single models at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model. We used beam search with a beam size of 4 and length penalty alpha = 0.6.
6.2 Model Variations: Varying the number of attention heads and attention key/value dimensions while keeping computation constant shows that single-head attention is 0.9 BLEU worse than the best setting, and quality also drops off with too many heads. Reducing the attention key size d_k hurts model quality. Bigger models are better, and dropout is very helpful in avoiding over-fitting. Replacing sinusoidal positional encoding with learned positional embeddings gives nearly identical results.
6.3 English Constituency Parsing: We trained a 4-layer transformer with d_model = 1024 on the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) portion of the Penn Treebank (about 40K training sentences), and also in a semi-supervised setting with approximately 17M sentences. The Transformer performs surprisingly well at this task, outperforming all previously reported models except the Recurrent Neural Network Grammar, and outperforms the BerkeleyParser even when trained only on the 40K-sentence WSJ training set.

SECTION: 7 Conclusion
In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. For translation tasks, the Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers, achieving a new state of the art on both WMT 2014 English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks. We are excited about the future of attention-based models and plan to apply them to other tasks, extending the Transformer to problems involving input and output modalities other than text, and to investigate local, restricted attention mechanisms for large inputs and outputs such as images, audio and video. Making generation less sequential is another research goal. The code used to train and evaluate the models is available at the tensor2tensor GitHub repository.

SECTION: Attention Visualizations (Appendix)
Figure 3 shows an example of the attention mechanism following long-distance dependencies in the encoder self-attention in layer 5 of 6: many attention heads attend to a distant dependency of the verb "making", completing the phrase "making...more difficult". Figures 4 and 5 show attention heads apparently involved in anaphora resolution and heads that exhibit behaviour related to the structure of the sentence, demonstrating that different heads clearly learn to perform different tasks.
